---
section: text-right
image: ./path/to/image.jpg
---

Worldwide, people are leading increasingly sedentary lifestyles (Park et al., 2020). This phenomenon not only has a negative impact on the health of individuals, but it also places pressure on stretched, post-pandemic healthcare systems (World Health Organization, 2022). Therefore, physical health outcomes within individuals’ control should be addressed to promote good health, as well as a functional health service. One way that individuals can address their health is through regular physical activity, which has been shown to reduce the risk and impact of both physical and mental illness (US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2024). More recently, people are looking to technology for assistance with their physical health. This includes systems for engaging in exercise at home, such as Zwift or Peloton, and applications for recording physical activity, like Strava or Garmin Connect (Sullivan and Lachman, 2017).

Health applications, sometimes referred to as mobile health interventions, often encourage habit formation through persuasive strategies such as self-monitoring and goal setting, with the aim of positively changing user behaviour (Alqahtani et al., 2019). Although scheduling activity is positively correlated with improved activity engagement, the majority of these applications focus on enabling the user to track and view their completed activities (Rodgers et al., 2002; Knight et al., 2015). For example, on Strava, a popular exercise application with a social media component, users can record a physical activity, like a run, and review the activity when completed by scrolling through statistics and visualisations of pace, heart rate, and route map (Strava, 2024). Further, despite numerous health applications including persuasive strategies, and research indicating that their inclusion contributes to healthy behaviours, there is limited understanding as to what strategies are most appropriate for health and fitness applications. In addition to the lack of understanding regarding the efficacy of certain persuasive strategies in the context of physical activity, minimal research has been undertaken to understand how the strategies contribute to the usability and user experience of such an application (Knight et al., 2015; Alqahtani et al., 2019).

The project followed a modified version of the Stanford Design Thinking Process, to develop an interactive, high-fidelity prototype of the Coach application (d.school, 2024).
